## 1./ Algorithmic Trading Track

The primary objective of this track is to allow participants to demonstrate their skillsets in applying machine learning techniques in developing algorithmic trading strategies. Participants will be tasked with developing ML models using a training data set provided by the organizer. The evaluation will be performed on a testing data set after the model is built. Both training and testing data sets are samples from the last 10 years of S&P 500 stock data. The goal is to achieve performance that outperforms buy and hold the SPY index, demonstrating the benefits of using machine learning for portfolio management.

## 2./ Track Structure

### 2.1./ Dataset Access

Participants will have access to historical label-encoded S&P stock data spanning the last 10 years. The dataset will include relevant features such as opening, closing, high, low prices, trading volume, and other financial indicators on a daily timeframe.

### 2.2./ Model Development

Each team will be provided code templates so that they can explore and employ different machine-learning techniques to develop predictive models capable of making trading decisions based on historical data. Each group’s model is expected to output a trading signal that includes an action (buy, sell, or hold, i.e., do nothing) and the number of shares involved for each ticker in the universe.

### 2.3./ Evaluation Criteria

The performance of each team's model will be evaluated based on its ability to generate risk-adjusted returns. Risk-adjusted return is defined by Sharpe ratio. Maximum drawdown will also be examined. Teams will be ranked according to the relative performance of their models when compared to the baseline SPY benchmark.

### 2.4./ Judging Criteria

- Accuracy and robustness of the ML model in predicting stock price movements.
- Consistency and stability of the trading strategy implemented by the model.
- The adaptability of the model to changing market conditions.
- Overall profit margins generated by the model relative to the SPY annual return.
- A brief description of the model and what the participants have learned is also expected.
